---
question: What measurement capabilities will FABRIC have, and what kinds of measurement/experiment data will be made available to experimenters and where can the data be stored?
---
The FABRIC Measurement Framework is designed to be adaptable/programmable, scalable, extensible, and shareable. It’s goal is to support an automated instrumentation of experiments, enabling experimenters to collect, store, and publish detailed measurement data from users and the system/experiment. Examples include CPU, disk and network utilization, packet error counts and other interface statistics, packet capture traces with precise timestamps from inside the experiment topologies. FABRIC will also allow users to collect measurements and error statistics from the underlying optical/DWDM infrastructure and electrical power consumption data on a per-server basis.
The framework is being realized using a measurement bus infrastructure based on pub/sub technology with efficient filtering, searching, and processing of measurement data within the testbed  using a combination of testbed resources (e.g. GPUs and FPGAs for real-time training and inference on the data) and off-line processing outside the testbed using experimenter’s institutional or public cloud resources.
The framework will allow for fine-grained precise measurements leveraging a highly-accurate PTP timing signal from a GPS receiver located at every FABRIC site. This will enable precise timestamping of packets using NIC cards (a.k.a., PacketGPS) with the accuracy of 10s of milliseconds. FABRIC will also allow for the collection of high-speed packet traces using RAM or high-speed NVMe drives at each site, which can be attached to individual experimenter compute instances. Larger data sets can be stored within experiment-attached block storage. The facility will also have between ½ and 1PB of object storage space split into 2 bi-coastal locations to help ease moving measurement and other experiment-related data in- and out- of experiments in programmatic fashion. 
FABRIC will collect logging and metrics from the underlying infrastructure to be made available to operators and experimenters. 
Additional details about the types of available data and data sharing policies for the facility will be devised in consultations with and shared with the community. 
